content/posts/2019-12-12-setting-up-sysinternals/index.md, before:

---
title: "Setting up Sysinternals"
date: 2019-12-12
slug: "setting-up-sysinternals"
aliases:
  - "/setting-up-sysinternals"
categories:
  - "Windows"
tags:
  - "Sysinternals"
  - "Windows"
---

Whilst Sysinternals can be downloaded and ran from the location to which they are extracted to, there is more preferable way to install on a system in which they will be used more frequently.

 	* Download Sysinternals from: [https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/)

 	Extract the downloaded zip contents to: C:\Program Files (x86)\SYSINT

 	* Extracting to this directory is useful for white-listing



 	Run the program "sysdm.cpl" from the Windows menu

 	Click the "Advanced Tab" -> Click "Environment Variables"

![Environment Variables](img/EnvironmentVariables-260x300.png)
 	Double click on the "Path" variable -> Add a new variable pointing to: C:\Program Files (x86)\SYSINT

 	* Now we can run the Sysinternal tools from cmd without needing to be in the directory



 	Add a new System variable named "_NT_SYMBOL_PATH" with the value "srv*c:\symbols*http://msdl.microsoft.com/download/symbols"

![The path for the _NT_SERVER_PATH](img/NT_SYMBOL_PATH-300x281.png)



**Tip:** Use the flag "/accepteula" to prevent the interactive window appearing when using the tools in a batch, for example.

Commit message:

Updated with feature image and summary

content/posts/2019-12-12-setting-up-sysinternals/index.md, after:

---
title: "Setting up Sysinternals"
date: 2019-12-12
summary: "A quick guide on installing Sysinternals in a permanent, system‑wide location and adding it to the PATH—along with setting the symbol path—so the tools can be run easily from any command prompt."
description: "A quick guide on installing Sysinternals in a permanent, system‑wide location and adding it to the PATH—along with setting the symbol path—so the tools can be run easily from any command prompt."
slug: "setting-up-sysinternals"
aliases:
  - "/setting-up-sysinternals"
categories:
  - "Windows"
tags:
  - "Sysinternals"
  - "Windows"
---

Whilst Sysinternals can be downloaded and ran from the location to which they are extracted to, there is more preferable way to install on a system in which they will be used more frequently.

 	* Download Sysinternals from: [https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/)

 	Extract the downloaded zip contents to: C:\Program Files (x86)\SYSINT

 	* Extracting to this directory is useful for white-listing

 	Run the program "sysdm.cpl" from the Windows menu

 	Click the "Advanced Tab" -> Click "Environment Variables"

![Environment Variables](img/EnvironmentVariables-260x300.png)
 	Double click on the "Path" variable -> Add a new variable pointing to: C:\Program Files (x86)\SYSINT

 	* Now we can run the Sysinternal tools from cmd without needing to be in the directory

 	Add a new System variable named "_NT_SYMBOL_PATH" with the value "srv*c:\symbols*http://msdl.microsoft.com/download/symbols"

![The path for the _NT_SERVER_PATH](img/NT_SYMBOL_PATH-300x281.png)

**Tip:** Use the flag "/accepteula" to prevent the interactive window appearing when using the tools in a batch, for example.
