content/posts/2016-06-05-hallgate-timber-website-remodel/index.md, before:

---
title: "Hallgate Timber Website Remodel"
date: 2016-06-05
slug: "hallgate-timber-website-remodel"
aliases:
  - "/hallgate-timber-website-remodel"
categories:
  - "System.Xml.XmlElement"
tags:
  - "Hallgate"
  - "Hallgate-Timber Website"
  - "Joshua"
  - "Robbins"
  - "Timber"
  - "Website"
---

The Hallgate Timber website remodel is a project I am undertaking whilst working at the company, it is an in-house project which is allowing for constant feedback from the client. This project will be the first web-development project undertaken since my days at college (3 years ago), so this really should be a nice refresher/ learning experience.

![Hallgate Timber website (16/06/2016)](img/index-1024x527.jpg)

The problem with the current website is that the website doesn't really follow any design schema. content is added without a lot of thought into design. whilst the website is functional and does serve its purpose to a point, there is a lot in which can be improved upon. Navigation on the website needs improvement, after creating a sitemap to see what is being hosted, put simply its confusing.

![Newly designed Hallgate Timber index](img/index2-1024x527.jpg)

The first version of the new Hallgate Timber website adds a little more CSS style than before, but while keeping the functionality. One of my aims with the new site is to keep the sites depth to a minimum, so all of the websites content is easily found, something not so easily done on the previous website.
## HTML Tables

HTML tables are a common implementation on the old website, whilst they do serve their purpose, DIV tag tables are the preferred way to go nowadays.

**Before:**

![Sheds Page HTML table](img/shedsjpg-1024x527.jpg)

**After:**

![Sheds Page DIV table](img/sheds2-1024x527.jpg)

Whilst there isn't a dramatic different in the appearance of  over a div table, there are advantages to useing div tags, such as for users' with screen readers and other accessible browsers.

Commit message:

Updated with feature image and summary

content/posts/2016-06-05-hallgate-timber-website-remodel/index.md, after:

---
title: "Hallgate Timber Website Remodel"
date: 2016-06-05
summary: "A website remodel project for Hallgate Timber focused on improving structure, navigation, and accessibility. The original site lacked a coherent design and relied heavily on outdated HTML tables, making content difficult to find. The redesign introduces cleaner CSS styling, a shallower site hierarchy, and modern DIV‑based layouts to improve usability, accessibility, and maintainability while preserving the site’s core functionality."
description: "A website remodel project for Hallgate Timber focused on improving structure, navigation, and accessibility. The original site lacked a coherent design and relied heavily on outdated HTML tables, making content difficult to find. The redesign introduces cleaner CSS styling, a shallower site hierarchy, and modern DIV‑based layouts to improve usability, accessibility, and maintainability while preserving the site’s core functionality."
slug: "hallgate-timber-website-remodel"
aliases:
  - "/hallgate-timber-website-remodel"
categories:
  - "Web Design"
tags:
  - "Hallgate"
  - "Hallgate-Timber Website"
  - "Joshua"
  - "Robbins"
  - "Timber"
  - "Website"
---

The Hallgate Timber website remodel is a project I am undertaking whilst working at the company, it is an in-house project which is allowing for constant feedback from the client. This project will be the first web-development project undertaken since my days at college (3 years ago), so this really should be a nice refresher/ learning experience.

![Hallgate Timber website (16/06/2016)](img/index-1024x527.jpg)

The problem with the current website is that the website doesn't really follow any design schema. content is added without a lot of thought into design. whilst the website is functional and does serve its purpose to a point, there is a lot in which can be improved upon. Navigation on the website needs improvement, after creating a sitemap to see what is being hosted, put simply its confusing.

![Newly designed Hallgate Timber index](img/index2-1024x527.jpg)

The first version of the new Hallgate Timber website adds a little more CSS style than before, but while keeping the functionality. One of my aims with the new site is to keep the sites depth to a minimum, so all of the websites content is easily found, something not so easily done on the previous website.
## HTML Tables

HTML tables are a common implementation on the old website, whilst they do serve their purpose, DIV tag tables are the preferred way to go nowadays.

**Before:**

![Sheds Page HTML table](img/shedsjpg-1024x527.jpg)

**After:**

![Sheds Page DIV table](img/sheds2-1024x527.jpg)

Whilst there isn't a dramatic different in the appearance of  over a div table, there are advantages to useing div tags, such as for users' with screen readers and other accessible browsers.
