content/posts/2019-10-25-connecting-to-windows-internal-database-wid/index.md, before:

---
title: "Connecting to Windows Internal Database (WID)"
date: 2019-10-25
slug: "connecting-to-windows-internal-database-wid"
aliases:
  - "/connecting-to-windows-internal-database-wid"
categories:
  - "Windows"
tags:
  - "SQL Server Management Studio"
  - "SSMS"
  - "WID"
  - "Windows"
  - "Windows Internal Database"
  - "Windows Server"
---

Whilst trying to figure out issues with a service which uses Windows Internal Database (WID) I came into the issue of actually connecting and managing it...

Steps to connect to WID:

 	* Download and install Microsoft SQL Server Manager ([found here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/ssms/download-sql-server-management-studio-ssms?view=sql-server-ver15)) onto the machine hosting the instance

 	* Run Microsoft SQL Server Manager (SSMS) as **Administrator** (if not run as Administrator a permissions exception will be thrown when connecting)

 	Enter the connection string, this will be different depending on the Windows version:

 	* Windows 2003 - Windows 2008: \\.\pipe\MSSQL$MICROSOFT##SSEE\sql\query

 	* Windows 2012 onward: \\.\pipe\MICROSOFT##WID\tsql\query



 	* Connect using Windows Authentication

Commit message:

Updated with feature image and summary

content/posts/2019-10-25-connecting-to-windows-internal-database-wid/index.md, after:

---
title: "Connecting to Windows Internal Database (WID)"
date: 2019-10-25
summary: "A short guide on connecting to the Windows Internal Database by installing SSMS, running it as Administrator, and using the appropriate named‑pipe connection string for your Windows version so you can manage WID with standard SQL Server tools."
description: "A short guide on connecting to the Windows Internal Database by installing SSMS, running it as Administrator, and using the appropriate named‑pipe connection string for your Windows version so you can manage WID with standard SQL Server tools."
slug: "connecting-to-windows-internal-database-wid"
aliases:
  - "/connecting-to-windows-internal-database-wid"
categories:
  - "Windows"
tags:
  - "SQL Server Management Studio"
  - "SSMS"
  - "WID"
  - "Windows"
  - "Windows Internal Database"
  - "Windows Server"
---

Whilst trying to figure out issues with a service which uses Windows Internal Database (WID) I came into the issue of actually connecting and managing it...

Steps to connect to WID:

 	* Download and install Microsoft SQL Server Manager ([found here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/ssms/download-sql-server-management-studio-ssms?view=sql-server-ver15)) onto the machine hosting the instance

 	* Run Microsoft SQL Server Manager (SSMS) as **Administrator** (if not run as Administrator a permissions exception will be thrown when connecting)

 	Enter the connection string, this will be different depending on the Windows version:

 	* Windows 2003 - Windows 2008: \\.\pipe\MSSQL$MICROSOFT##SSEE\sql\query

 	* Windows 2012 onward: \\.\pipe\MICROSOFT##WID\tsql\query

 	* Connect using Windows Authentication
